# Contributing guidelines

We love external contributions! 

Here are some guidelines to streamline the process.


## Before coding

If you have a new idea:

1. Please check open and closed issues and PRs for relevant discussions
2. If none exist, raise the topic and discuss to make sure it's aligned with the overall vision and roadmap

## Coding

1. Fork the repo
2. Create a branch in your fork (prefer - in naming rather than _)
3. Implement your changes in your branch
    - Make sure your branch contains changes limited to the scope of the task
    - Dependency updates should be standalone PRs whenever possible
    - Implement tests if applicable
6. Do a round of manual QA 
8. Update `CHANGELOG.md` if applicable
9. Update documentation if applicable
10. Push to your fork's branch, open a PR

Trivial fixes (typo, easy-to-fix compilation error, etc.) don't need to go through this process


## Documentation

When updating the documentation, test the generated mkdocs site locally.

### Setup

**Prerequisites**

- Python

```bash
pip install mkdocs
pip install mkdocs mkdocs-material
```


### Run

```bash
mkdocs serve
```

Check the console output for a localhost url, most probably something like:

```
INFO     -  [09:41:08] Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8000/bumble-tech/appyx/
```

Open the url in your browser. Changes are automatically deployed by mkdocs while the server is running.


## Codelabs

You can contribute by adding or updating any of the existing codelabs.

### Setup

- Python

You are required to have python3 if you want to be assisted by the available scripts.
https://www.python.org/downloads/

- claat

Google cli to easily create codelabs using markdown._

https://github.com/googlecodelabs/tools#ok-how-do-i-use-it


### Creating a new codelab

There is some tooling to help you a bit to create and keep the file structure for the codelabs.
In corder to create a new codelab, just to go `codelab` and use the existing script. Mind that this script is mean to work from the codelab directory.

To create a new codelab from appyx root folder you can type:

```bash
cd codelabs
./codelab.py new
```

This will create a new markdown file codelab with an autogenerated id under `codelab/markdown/` folder. It constains a template to easy the process of defining the codelab.

Once it is generated, you can complete the desired metadata info and the codelab content.

If you want check the options you can invoke the script without any argument.

```bash
./codelab.py
```

### Generating files

- Once you are finished with the codelab content, or if want to visualice it. You can generate the html files for the latest codelab using:

```bash
cd codelabs
./codelab.py gen
```

Alternatively, you can specify a codelabId:

```bash
cd codelabs
./codelab.py new 001
```

After doing so, your codelab files will be available in `root/documentation/codelabs/`

### Update codelab index

You might want to index your codelab to the codelabs doc section, to do so you should edit
`root/documentation/codelabs/index.html`


### Test locally

Follow the Run instruction on the Documentation section of this document to serve the doc locally. 
- Navigate to http://127.0.0.1:8000/bumble-tech/appyx/codelabs to see the index.
- Navigate to  http://127.0.0.1:8000/bumble-tech/appyx/codelabs/{codelabID}/index.html to see your brand new codelab


